We're already able to work on the cart,
now I want to display cart items on cart.ejs. There I simply will add a main section before the end ejs
include,
that's important and
now first of all, what do we need to do here?
We need to check if we do have products and if we do have them, then we want to display them and I will
simply display them in a really boring list
for now, we can add styling later,
just want to see if that works.
So let's go real quick to the shop controller where we load the cart and there
first of all we need to be prepared to fetch all products because we want to return them to the cart.
However of course not all products we have, just the products we have in the cart.
So for this we need to go to the cart model first of all and get delete product and add product,
now we need a way to get all the products in a cart. So I'll add a new static function, get products here and
in this function I will access my file and simply return the product IDs.
I need to get a callback therefore which I can call once I got the products and then I can use this function
here to read the file
and in here I know I get my cart, this time doing it correctly with json parse file content,
this is now the cart
and actually I'll name this get cart and not get products because I will return the entire cart here
in my callback, this
is all I want to do. Now obviously this can fail if we have no carts yet so I will check if we have an error
and if that is the case, I will call callback null here and otherwise in the else block here, I will
return a cart with valid values.
Now we can go to the shop.js controller in get cart and here I call cart get cart. I will have to pass
a function there, the callback function I just added in the cart model where I will eventually receive
the cart and I will render my view inside of this function.
However I don't just need the cart, I need a little bit more information about the products too,
so I will use my product model then to fetch all products here and I will add my callback here
and make sure that this is nested in the cart function and we're having a lot of callbacks here but
it's still readable,
later we'll also find another way of working with a lot of depending async actions.
So now I got my cart and I got the products,
now I just need to filter out the products which are actually in the cart. So I will go through all my
products,
so for product of products looping through all the products I have in there and I will check if this
given product is also stored in a cart and I can check this because in my cart, we got the product ID,
right if you have a look at cart.json here, we'll store the product IDs.
So I'll check if carts products, if I do find this product here,
so if the product I'm looking at in the cart, if the ID of that product equals my product ID here and
of course this is some code that can be improved if you store large quantities of data but we won't
store large quantities of data in our file here anyways,
we'll use a database for that
and therefore for now this is perfectly fine.
And if I do find an ID in the cart, then I know well the product is part of that and therefore I will
create a new constant here, cart products which is an array
and I will simply add that product to cart products then, so cart products push and I will add the product
I'm currently looking at in this iteration of this loop.
So this product I'm looking at, if it's part of the cart I'll add it to cart products.
This means that after the loop is done, I'll have an array of cart products that contains all the products
which are indeed part of the cart.
Now important, just adding the product like this does not suffice
instead I'll add an object with a product data field which holds the product and also a quantity field because
the quantity is stored in a cart too but not in that product I'm looping through because these are just
the products I'm storing in the product.json
file, obviously there is no quantity in there. In the cart
however, every product I store there does have a quantity attached to it.
So in shop.js
here, I will also store the quantity of the product I'm looking at. Now I'm exracting my cart product
here,
so actually I'll store this const, cart product data, I'll store the cart product I'm finding in the cart
products array in cart product data and I'll check the existence of that then and if that exists I know
there is some data about this product in the cart, I then store the original complete product data from
the product model and from the cart product data,
I'll take the quantity. So now we got quantity and product data in there and we push that object to cart products
and cart products is now what I want to return,
so here I'll return a products field which holds cart products,
this is sent to my view.
Now if we have no products in the cart, then cart products will simply be an empty array and I can check
for that in my template.
So now let's go to the cart.ejs file
and first of all I'll add an if statement and check if products and now remember, products is simply this key here
I'm sending into my view,
so I'll check if products length is greater than zero and then close that
and I'll also already define an else block here because I want to render something if we got no products in
a cart too.
So here in the else block and you need to close that curly brace thereafter, in the else block I'll render
h1 tag where I say no products in cart,
like this
but here of course I want to render the products in the first block of the if statement.
So here I'll render unordered list for now where I simply loop through all the products, again using ejs
products for each product
and that is an anonymous function here like that, then close the forEach loop here by closing the curly
brace of that anonymous function and then the bracket of this forEach method here.
Now in here I want to output the product information
and now it's important to keep in mind that product here,
maybe we should name it product data, that this
does actually hold or does actually refer to a product with a product data field and a quantity field
and the product data field is the product I'm interested in
but I also need the quantity.
So maybe even I don't name that product data but just p
and then in here, I can output p.product data, referring to that nested product data which holds
the product information like the title,
so .product data.title would allow me to output the title. And then also maybe in brackets and this is
no ejs syntax, this is normal hardcoded text here
but then in there I use ejs again to access p.quantity and remember p simply is that object
we passed t that cart products array on our backend code.
So now let's see if that works,
if I save this and I reload this cart page, we see no products in cart. If I go to products here and
I click add to cart, we indeed see that on our page.
If I add this one more time, we see it twice.
So this is now working,
the last step is that I want to be able to delete it.